[Music]
okay my name is dick NC I'm a Tennessee
artist here we are again at art in the
Carolinas but what I'm gonna show you
today is we've already worked this
picture with some acrylics and we did
some washes and we left it you can do
very quickly this is the picture we use
this is a picture of Andrews bald and in
the North Carolina in the gray smokey
month but today what we're going to do
we're going to build it up with a little
pastels and when you're building up with
the pastels at this stage here you want
to use fairly soft pastels if I'm going
to start a pastel write from scratch I'm
going to use a little bit harder past
those these are the gallery pass you
pass those by mungo it's a little harder
but we won't do this right now because
it's a little bit harder surface and
we've already got stuff worked up this
is a softer pastel this is very soft
basically I go from the hard I go to a
semi hard which is some of the Rembrandt
are very semi hard semi soft feather and
they're good pastel - but it's the
medium then I'll go to the soft pastel
today we're gonna use the soft pastel
we're gonna start out with a dark gonna
take about three or four colors here
this dark blue let's start out with a
dark green when you plan to pastels it's
just like painting you put in strokes
you start out with your darks first and
be very careful with pastels because you
don't want the dust you don't want to
breathe the dust so anytime you're
working with them don't go blowing on
them just tap them like this and they'll
drop off the bottom or use a vacuum with
them we'll just do a little bit here
we'll build this up a little bit these
are very nice to work with it they're
just soft enough that they don't break
in your hands and they can do quite a
bit with them
we're just add a few more brave let's
goes another bluish color this a little
bit more blue right in here moms have a
lot of blue in them
with a green a little bit back here okay
now right back here at the mouth this is
the bluish but there's a little kind of
a greenish cast
let's take nice thing about past those
you can almost pick up the color that's
that you see with them you want to make
colors you can crosshatch with them just
a little bit dark but if it goes too
dark and take a little bit of a choice
take a lighter color you go right over
it
just cross-hatching
okay now when you get into some of the
lighter colors just take a light light
light blue let's take five one yeah I
had one right here in my hand take this
color like that take the side of your
your pastel just will take the side of
your pastel like this and hit it like
this don't be afraid and see how that
goes in say that goes there you go now
let's find a little lighter blue color
to go into the the background right up
in here just nice now that's a little
dark but watch what we'll do go in here
put a little more sky more sky okay
let's take a little weight and we'll mix
it don't don't mix it to the point where
you're just making it basically mud is
what you're going to get enough to break
it up you know let's go in some of the
light colors over here like the light
greens stick out here together you got a
nice colors a nice light green right
there
work passages work a passage to bring up
a surgically okay see how quickly you
get some pastel building and look at the
beautiful yellow colors the bright
colors
let's take here's that here's a nice
very bright watch what happened
don't be afraid to hit now these pastels
you're gonna have to spray them at some
point some of the sprays then one of the
sprays is a brand new one
oh by kryolan that's a it's a fine art
of spray just lightly spray your pastels
very lightly don't spray them to the
point where you're blown all the dust
off let's pick up another light color
right here you know much fun you can
have with these and just build them up
and this board holds the it's got enough
tooth that it'll hold the pastel and
you'll spray it a little bit now right
through here is a much lighter color
let's just take this little light kind
of a a ochre and come right down here
see some of the branches had just a
little bit
stands out like that a little light
right up here remember your life comes
from that direction so that's where all
your warm colors are okay a little bit
lighter right right there
there you go okay you guys want to put
some clouds enough you're working with
pastels don't go putting them right back
in your box put them aside there because
these this is your pal that's the
palette is your workers right here you
don't work with all this capacitive but
that's your palette again my name is
Dickinson you can write me on the
internet but my internet site is dickin
Singh at BellSouth dot that again thanks
for dropping into my studio we'll see
you again
[Music]
you